DOCSP-34570 Bulk Deletes (#585)
mongodb/docs-compass: source/documents/delete-multiple.txt

   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can perform bulk delete operations on multiple documents in Compass

> by using the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal. Performing delete with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by using the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal. Performing deletes with
```

the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal helps you visualize deletes 
to your data before you apply them.

About this Task
---------------

> Deleting documents is a permanent action and cannot not be undone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting documents is a permanent action and can't be undone. 
```

> Validate documents in the :guilabel:`Preview` of the 
> :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal before confirming the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validate documents in the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` 
modal :guilabel:`Preview`before confirming the 
```

> About this Task
> ---------------
> 
> Deleting documents is a permanent action and cannot not be undone. 
> Validate documents in the :guilabel:`Preview` of the 
> :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal before confirming the 
> delete operation.

Reviewer: I recommend a callout here.

```suggestion
.. warning::

   Deleting documents is permanent and can't be undone. 
   Validate documents in the :guilabel:`Delete Documents`
   modal's :guilabel:`Preview` pane before confirming the
   delete operation.
```

Before you Begin
----------------

The :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal is available starting
in Compass version ``1.5.X``. For instructions on updating or installing
the latest Compass version, see :ref:`download-install`. 

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style:  normal

   .. step:: Apply a query filter

      From the :guilabel:`Documents` tab, input a query into the 

>       :guilabel:`Query bar`. The filter criteria of the query specified 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :guilabel:`Query bar`. The query filter criteria
```

>       :guilabel:`Query bar`. The filter criteria of the query specified 
>       applies to the documents in the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :guilabel:`Query bar`. The query filter criteria 
      apply to the documents in the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` 
```

      modal. If you need to delete all documents in a collection, 
      leave the :guilabel:`Query bar` blank.

>    .. step:: Open the delete documents modal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. step:: Open the Delete Documents modal
```

>       On the :guilabel:`Documents` tab, click the :icon-lg:`Trash` 
>       :guilabel:`Delete` button to display the 
>       :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal. The following 
>       table summarizes the :abbr:`UI (User Interface)` of the modal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      On the :guilabel:`Documents` tab, click the :icon-lg:`Trash` 
      :guilabel:`Delete` button to display the :guilabel:`Delete 
      Documents` modal. It has the following elements:
```

Author: I actually prefer the term, display the modal, and have used the verbaige in the other page bulk updated task page.

      .. list-table::
         :widths: 40 60
         :header-rows: 1

         * - UI Element
           - Description

         * - :guilabel:`Query`

>            - Any filter criteria specified on the 
>              :guilabel:`Query Bar` applies to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           - Filter criteria specified on the 
             :guilabel:`Query Bar` apply to the 
```

>            - Any filter criteria specified on the 
>              :guilabel:`Query Bar` applies to the 
>              :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal.
>              To update the :guilabel:`Query`, exit the 
>              :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal and modify the 
>              query in the :guilabel:`Query Bar`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           - Filter criteria specified on the 
             :guilabel:`Query Bar` apply to the 
             :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal.
             To update the :guilabel:`Query`, exit the 
             :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal and modify the 
             query in the :guilabel:`Query Bar`.
```

         * - :guilabel:`Export`
           - Prompts the :guilabel:`Export Delete Query To Language`
             modal. The :guilabel:`Export Delete Query To Language` 
             modal allows you to convert the delete query
             to a supported driver language.
         * - :guilabel:`Preview`

>            - A preview of the documents that will be deletion.

Author: Intentional use of "will" as this is feature references future state via the preview window.

>    .. step:: (Optional) Export the :guilabel:`Delete`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. step:: (Optional) Export the :guilabel:`Delete` query
```

      You can export the :guilabel:`Delete` query to a 

>       supported driver language using the :guilabel:`Export` button on 
>       the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      supported driver language using the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` 
      modal's :guilabel:`Export` button. 
```

      a. On the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal, click 
         :guilabel:`Export`. The 

>          :guilabel:`Export Delete Query To Language` modal displays with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         :guilabel:`Export Delete Query To Language` modal opens with
```

         the delete syntax populated under :guilabel:`My Delete Query`.

      #. Select a programming language by clicking the drop-down under 
         :guilabel:`Exported Delete Query`. You can convert your delete 

>          syntax to: C#, Go, Java, Node, PHP, Python, Ruby, and Rust. The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         syntax to: C#, Go, Java, Node, PHP, Python, Ruby, or Rust. The 
```

>       #. Select a programming language by clicking the drop-down under 
>          :guilabel:`Exported Delete Query`. You can convert your delete 
>          syntax to: C#, Go, Java, Node, PHP, Python, Ruby, and Rust. The 
>          converted delete syntax displays under the 
>          :guilabel:`Exported Delete Query` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Select a programming language from the drop-down under 
         :guilabel:`Exported Delete Query`. You can convert the command
         to C#, Go, Java, Node, PHP, Python, Ruby, or Rust. The field below
         displays the converted syntax.
```

      #. (Optional) Include import statements 
         Click the :guilabel:`Include Import Statements` checkbox to 
         include the required import statements for the selected 
         programming language.

      #. Click the :icon-lg:`Copy` icon to copy the converted syntax.

>       #. Click the :guilabel:`Close` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Click :guilabel:`Close`.
```

   .. step:: Delete your documents

>       a. On the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal, click 
>          :guilabel:`Delete Documents`.

Reviewer: Streamlined wording since we're already in the context of the modal.

```suggestion
      a. Click :guilabel:`Delete Documents`.
```

      #. Click the red :guilabel:`Delete Documents` button to confirm
         the operation.

>       Compass applies the :guilabel:`Delete` to the documents
>       within the :guilabel:`Filter` expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Compass deletes documents that match the :guilabel:`Filter` expression.
```

> Example

Author: Not actually sure we need an example here, the procedure does a decent job of covering the workflow. Curious for feedback if this adds value.

-------

The following example uses the 
:ref:`sample_mflix dataset <sample-data>`. 

> This example deletes two documents from the ``movies`` collection using 
> the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example deletes two documents from the ``movies`` collection.
```

Apply a filter in the :guilabel:`Query Bar` to filter movies which
have a ``year`` of ``1919``.

.. code-block:: javascript

   { 'year' : 1919 }

> Click the :icon-lg:`Trash` :guilabel:`Delete` button, the 
> :guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click :icon-lg:`Trash` :guilabel:`Delete` to display the 
:guilabel:`Delete Documents` modal.
```

> The :guilabel:`Preview` section populates with sample documents
> affected by the delete operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Preview` pane displays the documents
included in the delete operation.
```

> Click the :guilabel:`Delete Documents` button, a confirmation modal 
> displays asking you to confirm the delete operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`Delete Documents`.
```
